Rated <R> for rant. A bit of a perspecitve, but also a major proposal at
the bottom (Look for PROPOSAL)

Content:

1) Cat, Indy, direction, space and function
2) IMC as a learning environment
3) Proposal: reconfiguring the furniture layout (etc) at IMC


Background rant: 

Cat, Indymedia, their direction, the space, its function
--------------------------------------------------------
I dropped into CAT/IMC saturday (dec 8th 2001) evening and got chatting
with Hugh, as we were thinking about how the geek week will happen. It's
stuffed to the gills with keen people, which is encouraging, so much so
that we have to turn some of them away, and even make extra spaces for
some of them. It's gratifying to see it all fall into place, finally.

I was mentioning to him that when I joined CAT in what, 1997, I wanted to
be taught how to write web pages and it just didn't happen; Not enuf
people or time, CAT was crowded into a little room in the back of the
Black Rose on King St, and the only GUIs we had were on loan to other
people. I ended up learning it myself (yeech). Back then, as now, the CAT
charter had as one of its aims to share knowledge about computers and
activism, both physically and electronically, but it was happening only
very slowly, one text-mode command at a time - Black Rose had cat's only
GUI machine (they still have a CAT machine, too... somewhere).

CAT didn't have an explicit objective about how to pull this stuff off,
the simple act of keeping the show running was difficult enough. Not
enough geeks. Also, the infrastructure and access to it just wasn't there.

A lot has changed in the last few years. Moving the CAT server to the ISDN
service at the sadly deceased and legendary cafe run by Georgie Topp,
Karina Brisby and Merro Williams (EMU: Electro Mutants United) at Enmore
Road in 1999 solved a lot of the access problems, since it was open a lot
and people (me, and a few others) could just drift in, see the machine,
and do stuff to it {wow, _that_'s a server!}.

The total number of physical CAT boxes did not increase significantly
until a little later in the EMU period, starting in early 2000. I was
privelaged to be at the meeting on Monday 6th March 2000 with Matt
Arnison, John Jacobs, and Hugh Trevelyan, on the night when Praccus (Ben)
from the Octapod, Lou Boon-Kuo and Gav Sullivan from the UTS legal
research centre, made the proposal to start an Indymedia centre in Sydney.
Maffew recorded the minutes, and because I can data-mine my ancient
emails, the specific excerpt is :


> details:
> 
> * gavin, ben and louise proposed a very exciting plan to create an
> Independent Media Centre (like www.indymedia.org) for Sydney before and
> during the Olympics. They ask, would cat be into the project? The answer
> is a pretty fullon yes. The IMC would be in a strategically located
> squat, as a symbolic protest against the housing situation in Sydney, with
> a backup legal location. The IMC would be looking to involve groups from
> the Olympic Impact Coalition, including koori activists, youth and police
> powers, housing action groups, cat, octapod, and media activists from
> Melbourne.
> 

Email listservers and mobile phones were running hot, the beginnings of a
fake IMC was transplanted into the Broadway squat from Newcastle, so
glock-toting olympic-paranoid cops with enhanced emergency security
provisions could show their superiors they had busted something; the
actual independant media centre was installed in the old activist
warehouse at 17 Lord St, which, given South Sydney Council's forced-entry
/ smash-it-allll-up session at the Broadway squats on May 16th this year,
turned out to be a good move.

The meeting on May 24th, 2000 at EMU got the logistical ball rolling, and
from then on, it was totally amazing to just watch it all condense at Lord
St. To say CAT did it all would be wrong, but it did uh, catalyse its
development. People came and went and the place kind of just precipitated
out of thin air and diesel fumes. Dudes I never met and have never seen
since would ocme over, offload their surplus machine, and disappear into
the smog. 

I cast a mind's eye around my memories of the place, and can
reel off a list of donated and scavenged motherboards, harddisks,
computerish bits and pieces from dumpsters and junkyards, abandoned
monitors rescued from the roadside just before the rain, ancient door
closers (how the fuck many ways are there to install these bloody things?)
semiconductor devices found oozing from the cracks at Ernie's Charity
Recycling (Rest in Peace, Ernie), a couple of hundred metres of ethernet
cable... from Darwin....; a couple of work-experience kids from Newington,
tables fabricated from old fire doors, rolls of chook mesh and banner
canvas, carpet offcuts from the Sheraton Hotel, power points, cables,
conduit and mains switchgear snarfed from various condemned buildings,
countless philips head screws and litres of paint, dodgy red and black (!)
seats exhumed from the dungeon below the mostly demolished squats at
Broadway joined the motley retinue of mutant office wheelie chairs, hot
milk crates and badly upholstered broken lounges.

It was gaffa-taped and blue-tacked together, painted various ghastly
colours, and most of the time, some of it worked. People came in, scanned
stuff, digitised things, hammered keyboards, and the content started to
accumulate.

It ran on a fistful of double adaptors, a well-flogged OS install CD-ROM,
and an armload of kettle cords, but most of all, it ran on people who put
in an hour here, a day there, slapped in a bunch of informative keystrokes
or showed someone else how to scan something in, or provided some vital
little chunk of stuff to make something else work better. I wish I was
better remembering names. Hundreds, certainly.

The olympics came, all sorts of crazy shit was going on, laws being passed
making it illegal to fart in public, etc. Then, thankfully, the olympics
went (but the Homebush white elephant has not moved a micron). Various
protests happened, the Prague and Melbourne anti-globalisation stuff, and
although it had only been envisaged as a temporary thing (the lease at
Lord St was always up in the air) IMC remained as a functioning entity. It
was not used on a continuous basis, however, and CAT started to use it to
teach people how to use 'pooters. Super-cheap by industry standards, and
taught mainly by people with more than their fair share of a clue, these
were a hit, students and donations and volunteers came streaming in.

Lord St went down Sept 24th 2001, Sydney Indymedia was slightly more than
1 year old. The infrastructure, and there was a shitload of it, was packed
into boxes and distributed around various Cat member's garden sheds and
bedrooms and squats until a new premises appeared. It did, in the form of
the present one, once the admin/lab section of the Streets Ice Cream
factory at Turella.

In the meantime, it was instructive and interesting to observe that a lot
of content still came into the Sydney.indymedia.org website, and came from
places other than the actual physical indymedia centre... net cafes, home
computers, university terminals. Contributions kept coming in even when
the centre was mothballed, which in a way begs the question, does Sydney
Indymedia _need_ the infrastructure?

Well, yes. A lot of it was donated *for* or *to* the Indymedia effort.
However, IMC doesn't use it all of it all the time, as far as I can see
(parly because cat or IMC doesn't maintain it). There's lots of
powered-down time, with the pootas not being used to make positive
contributions to the function of society.

The lines are kind of blurry, too. Some hardware out there is CATs, some
is Indys, some boxes have guts/parts from both.

The Sydney Indymedia process did a lot for CAT, and CAT has done a lot
for, and with, Sydney Indymedia. It wrote some of the software, acquired
and configured all the hardware, paid for bandwidth, maintained a couple
of servers, and maybe even taught people something about how to use
computers. CAT had to do all these steps itself, but this has taught us
much, made us stronger, and we acquired our most valuable asset - our
group skills base - by doing it. If the equipment isn't being used to get
the knowledge out, then it should be.


                              *************

IMC as a learning environment.
------------------------------

IMC unpacked, and it has gradually taken shape, though in much the same
image as the old one, with the desks along the walls and a cieling-routed
LAN. Given that much of its future use will be for teaching, probably by
CAT, I think it should be reconfigured to assist with that purpose.

I'm going to mention some significant proposed changes to the layout, and
I want your comments fairly soon, since this has all gotta be running by
Saturday 15th Dec (next weekend). A lot of these issues would never have
become apparent to us if we had not gone through the experience of the
Indymedia setup at the Lord St premises, and actually tried to teach
people things in it, with its fairly awkward desk layout and access issues
and power point/network problems (ceilings, uurgh) and lighting glare and
noise and dodgy airflow, etc.

Anyway, as the room presently is, there are issues related to where do you
put the whiteboard with respect to the seats and desks, so that nobody has
to crane their neck to weird angles to look at it. With any configuration
with more than one corner (ie, computers along more than two walls)
somebody's gonna have to turn hard around to see the whiteboard. They will
probably do it several times a minute, since they're trying to transcribe,
slowly, unfamiliar code. Might be OK watching tennis upside down from your
bean bag, but for learning to write code, this sort of head-flex ping-pong
is a freaking nuisance.

There are issues related to power supply and LAN routing.

As for desk space, we don't want it to be so crammed you can't move your
mouse, nor buried under a wall of equipment through which you cant see the
whiteboard, nor much too cluttered to let you write notes.

Solving these problems is still not enough to make a good learning
environment, I think. It has to be easy to maintain, and fun to learn and
teach in. So here's the proposal:

PROPOSAL:
-------------

Environment
-----------
Big steps towards cooling and airing the room have already been taken
(aircon). It's very adequately lit, but might need a curtain across the
window to the kitchen, which I have noticed tends to be very bright
background against which to look at a monitor. Noise, we'll have to wait
and hear, but I'm against opportunities to play distracting wavs/mp3s if
that's not what people are actually trying to learn.

Access control. 
---------------
It sucked a lot having people walk into, or through, a teaching session.
To stop this, I propose the main double door to the corridor and the door
to the kitchen be kept closed, maybe locked, and access be via the door to
the living room area. The geek room door should also be kept closed.

Seats.  
------- 
Some of these are bloody uncomfortable to sit on. If anyone has some
(maybe 5, max) pillows suitable for placing on seats, please bring them.
Some chairs need some basic mechanical work so they don't jiggle around or
squeak like tortured rats.


Desks. 
------- 
We have enough desks. The monitors, mice and kbds should go on them. The
box should go under the table, aligned with the front of the desk, where
people can stick disks into the floppy drive, insert a CD-ROM, etc, and
where the are less likely to kick it over (I hope) when seated.

Desk layout:
------------
I think these should be set out in two rows across the room (see below)
to optimise lines of sight to the whiteboard.

This has the advantage that it will also make available some space at
the back where bags can be dumped before being seated.

Also, the two big monitors are close to the whiteboard. The 19" monster
monitor (didge) from Aldis Ozols will obstruct someone if it is in the
front row so it's in the back row, right next to the wall.

There will be a hub at the power-point (GPO=General Purpose Outlet)

Cabling
--------
Taped runs of ethernet, taped runs of mains/plugboard, where people cannot
trip on them. Maybe at the back of the desks. One hub at the end of each
desk; so the total cable run length is reduced. Daisy chain hubs (we have
3 with at least 12 ports plus 4 ports out the back of the Flat.cat the
print spool box, and I can bring another 8 port one). I think the LAN
topology should look like so

--to hardware hack session room
  (in cieling)
  |
hub, front,
|   ---------------------------------------------
|   ------------------------------------                        to ollie
|   -------------------------                                 (in ceiling) 
|   ---------------                                              |   
|   -------                                                      |
+--------------------(in cieling)-----------------------------------hub, back
                              --------------------------------------------
                                      ------------------------------------ 
                                                 -------------------------
                                                           ---------------
                                                                   -------
Box adjacency.
--------------
There's other things I've tried to encourage, such as an environment where
students are next to each other on machines with the same operating
system, so if they're using Windoze, they'll have someone next to 'em also
using Windoze and if they're clueless they can ask the person next to them
for help or at least watch what they're doing. This is supposed to be a
learning environment, as opposed to a schooling environment, so I want to
maximise the plagiarism and copying and co-operation between students (we
want them to learn how to do stuff, not how to pass exams, which is partly
why we don't have exams). In this way, there's actually more people
functioning partly as teachers in the room in conjunction with whoever is
ranting and scribbling up front.


Room layout:
-------------

The general layout is suggested below. The TV stand, bookshelves, and
maybe some other stuff might also need to be moved around. The plan is to
minimise the obstructions to people's view of the whiteboard, but also to
enable people with bad eyesight to be close to it, and at the same time
make them able to use the bigger monitors (didge, Moz currently have
these).  I also don't want anyone freezing their arse off seated in the
cyrogenic blizzard from the aircon (people teaching are up and about, more
active).

Now, make no mistake, ASCII art sucks, and sucks even more when I do it,
this is not to scale, and is out of proportion, but your eyeballs have
suffered too much text already. Assimilate this:


        kitchen   

!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!curtain!!!!!!!!!!!!              |                    
-------------------GPO------------------Xlocked doorX----air-------------
|                      |                                 con             |
|  coffee?      basin  |                                 \               | 
|                      |                                   \white        |
|          +-----------+  emergency                          \board      | 
|          |              place?                               \         |
|          |                                                     \       |
| fixed    |                                                       \     |
| table    |                                                             |
|          |                                                             |
GPO        |                                                             |
|          |                                                             |
|----------+_______________ ____________________________                 |
|  hub                     |                           |                 | 
|   *****     *****      *****      *****     *****    |                 |
|   *****     *****      *****      *****     *17**    | <----front row  |
|   *Deb*     *Deb*      *Deb*      *Win*     *Win*    |                 |
|   *****     *****      *****      *****     *****    |                 |
|__________________________|___________________________|                 |
|                                                                        |
|                                                                        |
|                                                                        |
|                                                                        |
|                                                                      GPO
|                  --------------------- --------------------------------+
|                 |   *****     *****   |  *****      *****     ***** Hub|
|  back row ->    |   *****     *****   |  *****      *****     **19*    |
|                 |   *Deb*     *Deb*   |  *Deb*      *Win*     *Win*    |
|                 |   *****     *****   |  *****      *****     *****    |
|                 |_____________________ ________________________________|
|                                                                        |
|                                                                        |
|                                                                        X
|                                                                geek -->|  
entry                                                            room    |
door                                   space where ppl                   |
X                                       can dump bags, etc               X
                                       maybe an extra desk?              |
                                                                         |
X                                                                        |
|---------------GPO-------------------------Xlocked double doorX---------+
                              
                           corridor


It would help a lot if the whiteboard were mounted on wheels or a stand or
something to get it about 1 meter off the ground:


          -------------
         |  blah =     |
         |  2 x blah   |  
         |-------------|
         |             |
         |             |
        O+O           O+O


Testing:
--------
Since we are counting on ten machines to be functional for the week, I
thought I'd see if the electrickery supply could deal with it, and turned
on all the monitors, computers, television sets in the room *and* then
turned on the greedy-guts cooling mode of the airconditioner too, to see
if I could trip the circuit breakers. They're quicklag ones, so if they
were overloaded they'd snap out immediately.

As far as this test is concerned, the system is OK, nothing crashed,
everything booted and functioned ok when the aircon kicked in. (Thinks to
self: add ten pizzas, some beers, turn off lights, and this place will
also fuggin' rock for a LAN party (but you don't want to see the other
players in Quake deathmatch, and I'm not gonna suggest we go back to the
old layout).


Doin' it:
----------

Well, please make suggestions. Pulling this off will need lots of moving,
some cieling work, lots of stupid stuff we wouldn't have to do now if we'd
thought about it earlier, but of course we didn't know we were doing geek
week earlier, or know what it involved, so we probably couldn't think
about it until now, and when we do the room will be more conducive to
learning stuff.

Please tell me ideas, suggestions, detected fatal flaws, etc.

<predator>
