Minutes of the cat meeting Jan 8 2001
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Present: Graeme, JJ, Maffew, Len, Mantra, Jamie, Hugh, Aldis, and Enda,
much later.

Agenda items: (in order, skip to the ones in which you have an interest)

Anarchist Radio:
Website reqests:
NCC - TWS - DSL:
The Wilderness Soc (TWS): 
TV/AV machine:
Avatar:
Admin of accounts:
Len's stuff:
Tel$$tra money:
Credit card facilitation:
Kash, without the political baggage.
Donations:
Monitors:


All omissions, inaccuracies and capital offenses are mine. Feel free to
amend or add or clarify the ranting drool.


------------------------------------------------------------------------

Anarchist Radio:

The anarchist radio federation stuff looked like it was going to require a
lot of work on a sustained basis, mainly burning cdroms. Guy (one
of the people who is part of James Butcher's group involved in the
production) has said he's going to do some of the work. 

It has transpired that EMU have not sold their CD-rom burner: jj's going
to contact what's left of emu and try and buy it off them.


Website reqests:

Cat website:
according to guy the cat pages have a lot of stale links, omitted new
links, and things which need to be changed. Guy's looking down the barrel
of some tutelage concerning doing the updates.

South Australian Antinuclear stuff:
No objections to hosting it so far, so Hugh said he'd tell them to
Security arrangements are significant when the website changes, we need to
know their current URL so it could be re-referenced, and what ISP the
account holders would like to log in from (or they'd be clobbered by being
omitted from the cat IP-allowed list). 

Virus Media : Enda (who is from IMC) wants to host virus media website on
cat, and we're still not sure if virus media is actually a nonprofit first
an a business second or a business first and a nonprofit second. He was 
asked to clarify the status of virus media. He said when he came to the
meeting later on, and said it's a nonprofit community media company.



NCC - TWS - DSL:

Graeme thinks it's time to have a meeting with NCC (at Kent Street)
management (Kim Brebach, techie; Bruce Deikmann (sp?), Director) with a
view to sharing a DSL line with them. We needed to figure out what the
technical and financial arrangements were going to be. Graeme would like
that a cat geek or two be there to discuss some details concerning the
setup.

We're thinking that we meet up with them at their place in Kent street and
formulate a proposal for the sharing of the link, including what each
organisation *doesnt* have to do and what we might do if for any reason we
need to separate cleanly.

Graeme's going to draft a proposal to get cat on DSL and post it to
catkore/catgeek so we can evaluate it. The sooner we meet, the better.

Pacific Internet (formerly Zip) no longer do portable IP
numbers, but this may be able to be changed in the next few months.
Alpha.net reckons DSL will be a bit flakey for the first few months.


The Wilderness Soc (TWS): 
Their Sydney office is two floors down from alpha.net. Jamie was talking
to them about hosting a box and so on and the possibility of cat being
hosted at similar rates to a Wilderness Society in the same building. 

As a short term thing this would be cool : faster and cheaper for cat.

Alpha is TWS's ISP. Matt chatted to the people who run alpha and they're
cool with a share so long as alpha only sees one bills. Short term (a few
months) is fine, fone numbers and IP ranges is fine, still 20c a meg. Cat
would want access to the box occasionally. What do TWS get out of it?
Maybe Cat would host their site. Maybe Jamie would get the 24h access.
The time frame is pretty short.

JJ suggested we should fling TWS an advance payment. Some aspects of the
network topology, mainly for the protection of the TWS network, were also
discussed.


TV/AV machine:
Aldis donated a whopping 19' colour monitor to us, and it hasnt gone
yellow or anything. Aldis suggests a machine with a firewire card and an
analogue capture card so you can do analog TV and digital TV. Firewire
cards go for about $250 bucks and falling. One can get a high-end Athlon
with DDR memnory. Aldis offered us the possibility of some useful software
for video processing. 

AV Machine money: We got $1k from Melbourne for the benefit Hugh
orchestrated. The 'Pod people still haven't paid us, naughty naughty.


Avatar:
maybe it's a good idea to do a bit of a preliminary migration of the stuff
that runs on black. Maffew reckons we should upgrade black after the move
to dsl avatar migt be usefully employed taking over feral's jobs.


Admin of Accounts:

Enda / Monique account:
pred a zero-length file called .nomenu in monique's account and this will
make ppp work again when they dial up. Enda made a $100 donation for the
account. Wow.

Mantra's account: looks like the database needs updating even though the
account wa validly created.




Len: We now have a power PC 75MHz running decent OS, takes another 16Meg
72pin simm. Len's thinking of moving a shiping container of computer guts
over to Bangladesh, so we should maybe move some stuff to there. Also the
operations at Ernie's charity recycling will wind down as Ernie gets
sicker 8-(


Tel$$$tra money: jj paid two bills after which we still have six hundred
bux (pre the $80 from James). They were $232 (november) and $428
(december).


Credit Card autofacility for donation facilitation:
Maffew id a trawl around and found PenPal. It sucks for the people who do
the donation. JJ's gonna draft something up about making a page configured
to help people donate to us, and something similar on Indymedia and
active.org.au .



Getting the kash, without the political baggage:

Jamie raised the possibility of Cat going up and doing the Woodforde folk
festival next year. Whatever happened it'd probably have to be a
collaboratively done thing. Cat lacks the logistical meat to it alone.

He also suggested that it might be a good idea to generally consider the
possibility of hosting ethical nonprofit orgs and charging them a rate
which allows cat to sustain its cashflow and also subsidise the cheap
access of lots of little grass-rootsy activisty groups. Maffew looked at
the charter and didn't find anything contrary to what we might want to do 
in this regard.

There's a lot of angst piped around about wether or not we're doing
something for the hell of it and then getting what are thought to be
donations, or doing something IN EXCHANGE FOR AND ONLY IN EXCHANGE FOR
money. I think Cat's still gonna do what cat's gonna do, not for profit;
If we're providing resources for anyone, it is not NOPs whose sites we
host, it is telcos like Telstra which are legally permitted to
remoreselessly screw us. We're setting one businesses money against the
other.  Some of the people who come to cat do it because, not only are we
cheap but also because other ISPs are nasty greedy bastards, and the users
would rather spend their money with Cat.

Maybe this means we should make it a priority to figure out some of the
payment stuff (like links to a donation-to-cat section, on active.org and
indymedia.org).


Who will monitor the monitors
Maffew pinched a cat monitor for a little while and it died and donated 20
bucks for it, colleen donated 20 bucks, maffew's thinking about pinching
another monitor for a little while and keeping another one. Uh, I dont
know what the story is concerning funding for monitors. It all went a
little bit fast.

Jamie donated $50 bux out of the goodness of his wallet, and needed some
help setting up his laptop to serve php and postresql, which maffew
provided.


Next meeting is the 5th of february at 7:30 pm, at Lord St.


------------------------------------------------------
Cheeries....

<predator>
