Minutes of the Catalyst meeting Monday Feb 5 2001
Who showed up: Robin, Maffew, JJ, predator
Who else showed up: Saffron and Elise (from Medium) 
Any omissions are due to the increasing senility of the predator. Feel
free to add or correct as you think needs be.

Stuff: I'm a little rushed so, sorry for the scanty structure.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

hardware :
----------
vid card for didge : there's a little hurdle. The initial one we decided on
had no video out. The next osprey up, with video-out, uh...costs $3000.
One possibility is that we use the existing card to do what we want in the
way of digitisation, do but get another card to do video out. We're gonna
do some investigation about what's available.


IMPORTANT:
ATTENTION: SERVER UPGRADE FINALLY SCHEDULED : we've been wanting to do this
for years, but haven't got it done. Maffew wants to show someone how to do
it : maffew will document it on the fly if someone is prepared to actually
do the work (with his guidance). Maybe we should make it a workshop! It is
going to need a couple of days to complete. Pred's interested, M'liss was
interested but has decided to focus on indymedia instead.

Sat Feb 24 (warehouse) looks like the critical date for install, and we'll
need to start early so we can leave not-so-late.
Sat March 10th (at The Wilderness Society) will be de the day we plan to
move the server over.

equipment donations:
--------------------
Maffew did an excellent post in which he delineated the minimum usefulness
of a machine which we would accept for a donation. JJ incorporated it into
his blurb about equipment donations to cat. Pentiums, big drives, etc etc
etc.

feral and the dead mac net!
--------------------------
Feral was the router for the warehouse. Feral is a well flogged 486 and now
that the services have been transferred over to ollie, but we don't know
if its decommissioning is influencing the stability the network. Feral will
be decommissioned and probably have some new guts put into it.


todo.cat.org.au :
----------------
Is up and running, go go andy! It's a task request tracker.
It's at http://todo.cat.org.au


Web hosting Medium :
--------------------
Medium is a small organisation which aims to support artists and activists.
The organisation is trying to act as a conduit for resources and funding to
grassrootsy activist groups (collectives, eg Oms not Bombs, for instance),
and they would like to host their web pages on catalyst and ultimately
host their medium.org domainname. They're currently at

http://www1.tpg.com.au/users/potaka/medium/index.html

Provisionally we reckon that it's a go.



2ndary DNS for corporates virus-media/novocat:
----------------------------------------------
Enda Murray's Virus Media was looking to get DNS hosting on 
the cat machine, even though he was going to be paid out of it.
There was no overt refusal of Enda's request. 

We noticed the other day that on our secondary DNS list is novocat
 - which is a for-profit org, which sort of seemed to get in via
the hosting arrangement we have with octapod. Cat is therefore giving
infrasturctural assistance to a for-profit org and we need to
address this in the charter. Maffew will chat to Ben (at Octapod)
about this.

There will also be discussion on the catkore list about how we should
modify the charter to include a clause to deal with this sort of situation.

AARS:
-----
James sent a couple of copies of the AARS radio show. (Anarchist World
This Week, All the News That Fits) There were some logistical issues about
using the cdrom (try not to use it on thursday night whn Indymedia is
operating) and how to give the ASF access to copy the cd's.


mail lists :
-----------
Rob reckons he'd like to create a mailing list pertinent to discussion
about killing the goods and services tax.

killgst@cat.org.au
Maffew will create the list, saving pred an extra thirty keystrokes or so.


telstra bill:
-------------
Latest monthly major nasty was $333.70. This should be the last bill which
has anything to really do with the big price squeeze from when black.cat
was at the warehouse. JJ reckons we have about six hundred bux but that'll
probably burn out in a few months. Maybe it's time to bite some people for 
money.


workshops:
----------
Jamie Gifford said it would be a good idea to run some linux training
workshops. There are logistics concerning when to run it, what to teach
in it ad so on. It could probably happen in the indymedia centre, which
has networked machines probably up to the tasks. More thinking about this
one needed.


catspace cleanup:
-----------------
Saffron has bravely volunteered to help this process.
Pred will be there. Sunday 11th Feb 2pm-5pm.


warehouse sale:
---------------
Michelle reckons there's no immediate threat of the place being sold
and in any case there is two months notice after any sale date. So things
are sort of cool.


gender and power:
-----------------
We noticed that the last meeting was all composed of boys. Maybe it's
important for all the participants to own a project so they have some
control over their participation? Hmmm.


Vibe:
-----
Has some problems with his login even though the /home/vibe directory was
recreated and the old archive untarred. Not resolved yet.

donation page:
--------------
JJ's page is now in pretty much it's final iteration. JJ reckons it might
be a good to put on a little blurb about what the costs are which cat incurs
when it does what it does. Maybe the donate stuff should be linked from the
front page (the Original/Speed/Canada mirror page) when it's finally
finished.



NEXT MEETING: 
Monday March 5th 7:30 pm at the Lord St warehouse.


Cheeries....

<predator>
