
SYNTHESIS: (from indole) To a well stirred solution of 10 g of
indole in 100 mL MTBE, cooled to 0 &#176C with an ice bath, there was
added 8.6 g oxalyl chloride. The reaction mixture was stirred for 0.5
hr, and the solids removed by filtration and washed twice with 50 mL
MTBE. This acid chloride was added to 20 mL anhydrous
diisopropylamine. There was then added an excess of 2N HCl, the
mixture cooled, and the resulting solids removed by filtration. These
were recrystallized from MeOH to give, after air drying, 11.4 g (49%)
indol-3-yl N,N-diisopropylglyoxylamide with a mp of 200-202 &#176C.<P>

A solution of 11 g indol-3-yl N,N-diisopropylglyoxylamide in 350 mL
anhydrous dioxane was added, slowly, to 19 g LAH in 350 mL dioxane,
which was well stirred and held at reflux temperature under an inert
atmosphere. After the addition was complete, reflux was maintained for
an additional 16 h, the reaction mixture cooled, and the excess
hydride destroyed by the cautious addition of wet dioxane. The formed
solids were removed by filtration, washed with hot dioxane, the
filtrate and washings combined, dried over anhydrous MgSO4, and the
solvent removed under vacuum. The residue was dissolved in anhydrous
Et2O and saturated with anhydrous hydrogen chloride. There were formed
crystals which were recrystallized from benzene/methanol to give 4.5 g
(40%) of N,N-diisopropyltryptamine hydrochloride (DIPT) with a mp of
198-199 &#176C.

(from tryptamine) A solution of 1.60 g tryptamine base in 10 g melted
sulfolane was treated with 8.5 g isopropyl iodide and 6.5 g
diisopropylethyl amine, and held at steam bath temperature for 12 h
with occasional shaking to mix the two phases. This mixture was then
added to 100 mL H2O, and extracted with three 30 mL portions of
hexane. These were combined and, after removal of the solvent under
vacuum, the residue was distilled at the KugelRohr to give an
off-white oil boiling at 170-185 &#176C at 0.05 mm/Hg weighing 1.37 g
(56%) that spontaneously crystallized to a solid, mp 69-71 &#176C.
Recrystallization of a sample from hexane produced a white product
with a mp of 72-74 &#176C. IR (in cm-1): 742, 791, 1009, 1133, 1162,
1198. MS (in m/z): C7H16N+ 114 (100%); C4H10N+ 72 (38%);
indolemethylene+ 130 (18%); parent ion 244 (<1%). A solution of 0.50 g
of the free base in 2.5 mL isopropanol was treated with 0.5 mL
concentrated HCl and slowly diluted with Et2O with good
stirring. There was thus obtained, after filtering, washing and air
drying, the hydrochloride salt with a mp of 192-193 &#176C. The
infra-red spectrum of this salt was the same from either source; IR
(in cm-1): 752, 773, 935, 972, 1138, 1183.

The homologue with only one isopropyl group on the nitrogen,
N-isopropyltryptamine or IPT, has been made according to the same
recipe, with the indol-3-yl N-isopropylglyoxalylamide (mp 199-200
&#176C from methanol) obtained in a 98% yield, and the amine
hydrochloride (mp 245-246 &#176C from benzene/methanol) obtained in a
60% yield. The free base distilled at 130-140 &#176C at 0.1 mm/Hg to
give a fraction that spontaneously crystallized to a very hard
solid. MS (in m/z): C4H10N+ 72 (100%); indolemethylene+ 131 (60%), 130
(32%); parent ion 202 (3%). No active level has yet been found in man,
to my knowledge.

