File: kat minutes.
Date: 4 March 2002
Who: chris <pred> giffo reha hugh LeahMason safa sophia andy savanna

Stuff: 

Moving boxes: 
--------------
Len came up with a variation of Andy's Plan B : that is,
instead of people dialling ollie, they dial conway. This frees up a fone
line at turella. Modems are prepared (tho a bit slow : 36k6). Andy has
prepared Avatar as a replacement for treehugger (the current slightly
flakey filewall). 

Giffo mentioned that it would be more economical for Turella to be a
dialup to alpha at standard commercial rates: that is, ollie dials alpha
and stays connected. Depending on the plan: if we use a 66c per hour one,
then that's expensive (and you pay for 1000 hours in one hit); 

Running dialup on conway actually is useful for emergency connection to
conway for admin purposes.

Existing cat dialup is limited to one person per time, for one hour of
access.

The fundamental differences seem to be these:


ollie dials alpha : cheap bandwidth, $25 a month + phone rent+ calls 
                     but no static IP (so cant do DNS on ollie)

ollie dials alpha : cheap bandwidth, $100 a month + phone rent+ calls 
     permanently    + bandwidth (ouch) static IP (so cant do DNS on ollie) 
No way.
 
ollie dials telstra : costly bandwidth, $130 a month + phone rent + calls
                     but static IP
We're trying to get away from this.

ollie dials conway: conway's bandwidth rate (16.5c) $ phone rents per month.

dialin to conway: useful back door for maintenance, phone rental per month. 
                  cat people get good speed (direct to conway)

There's issues here pertaining to being an internet service provider or
not. Maybe alpha can tell us if, by providing IP to members, we become an
ISP or not.


TWS treehugger replacement
--------------------------
16th March (Saturday  10am)


Bandwidth Reduction
--------------------
All the websites which such lots of user bandwidth etc. Ultrasex took 30% 
of the bandwidth, and 4 images were 200kb each (one was background
wallpaper). There's now, due to Chris, ~chris/ultra_new/ with new
compressed and optimised pictures. The links need to be checked since
there's filename changes, and hardcoded links which point back to cat's
main server, which obviates the use of a mirror 8-( So this needs to be
fixed.

Hugh mentions that Norrie hasn't looked at the site for a long time, and
that it is costly (etc etc). The proposal here is for chris to go through
and fix this stuff.

Mirror replacement: Rumble reckons there's cheap space in Melbourne. The
proposal is that we go ahead and do this, and if there's a no-can-do then
we look at somewhere else. <predator> to contact simpn rumble concerning
how to do this. push mirroring with copydir?


Do we block search engines? How?

this needs work. Soldiers in the bandwidth reduction campaign?
Hugh Chris jj Sophia:


spannr:
--------
dig has worked (do: dig spannr.org) and whois works. Zone files on ollie
are there. Why is spannr.org not being resolved is so far unknown.


billz:
-------

andy and jj were gonna get together and pay alpha. We currently have 1709
in the big account and some pool on the IMC nuclear weapons slush fund.
andy worked out how much we needed to pay. andy and so on can figure it
out tonight. We can write a cheque to TWS Sydney. And some cash. We're
waiting for telecom bills, we paid up till december (we have a monthly
range between 150 and 300, average 173 including gst per month). The TAD
RAM has been paid for.

On the cat account: we're cleaning up the signatories. Need passports,
drivers licenses, birth certificates, blood samples, credit cards,
medicare cards, etc etc etc to identify yourself.

We need password splitting for the maintenance of the policy that no
single individual can authorise cheques.

Is it worth hitting the most bandwidth-popular members for contributions?

Fundraisers (april advanced php stuff) in the pipe.


Active Fair
------------

The Active Sydney Fair is being held to involve people in activism. Hugh's
become motivation-depleted about Active Sydney Fair. People still want to
be part of it. They want to be involved with RTS. It's on March the 23rd.
The location has been decided (do we have a net connection, etc). Giff
reckons going round and collecting email addresses for the active sydney
event calendar was a good thing, since lots of people want to subscribe
(now 1000 emails). Maybe need a pamphlet describing active. Do we have
digital cameras or anything else which can be straightforwardly generate
media?

Proposal: we really should be promoting active sydney and a group should
actually tackle the logistics for this. Hugh's gonna put some beginning
efforts into this stuff but feels he needs assistance.


Active Hobart
--------------
And active lists in general. Needs some help. The lists have been
maintained up till now by Giffo (webkids, sydney calendar, and something
else) but now we're looking for assistance to manage the mail lists.
The requirements are mainly helping people unsubscribe and help them when
they forget their passwords. The active site itself needs some php
code-head assistance. Some lists need to be converted from majordomo to
mailman (which talks to qmail).

IMC meetings have more space in them than cat meetings so the general idea
here is that IMC meetings should actually be used to resolve various
issues and actually do some of the code work. There'll be an Active Sydney
meeting on Monday the 18th 7pm at Turella's IMC premises.

Someone's gonna respond to slimey concerning this.


BOX
-----------
Safa wants to do an inline Zine (Babes On Xterms) re programming and
stuff. Three pages on conway, cool. 



Open Source Games
------------------
So far, a one off (not a continuous weekly thing, yet). Maybe it brings
people along to play with the stuff,  and if it doesn't mess anything up,
well, cool. Low priority, but geek bait. John has to be responsible for
the equipment and the access control. Maybe John should invite people to
become cat members when they're here?


Data Model for the cat membership 
-----------------------------------
Reha would like to meet interested people to discuss what should be
included in the development. Sometime they want to print the data model
out. More input is required for progress on this. 

Reha reckons Chris, Hugh, Andy, should come along.

Date: 13th March 2002, Wednesday 7:30pm, TURELLA space.

Community Web
-----------------
Giffo's excellent initiative is currently scheduled for June 2002 (second
weekend). Loads of cool community web designers and developers would like
to join this. There is planned a din-dins and chat about stuff but not
scheduled yet. Interested parties can join the list at
geton.communityweb.cat.org.au

re advanced PHP:
---------------- 
Peter the PHP guru can do this course over 4 sundays in April. Gif
has a list of people who are keen to do this. 10 people will be required
for the weekend. Planned donation for this per student is : $120
concession and $240 for employed, 8 three hour workshops in total.
Maybe donate in advance. Gif's issue.


Wireless
----------
Pred's still planning to get some sort of wireless link happening. His
bag of worms, no cost to cat.


Pink
--------------
PInk is reasonably fast and can have open access to cat people for a
development platform where they can develop stuff without fear of crashing
the web server. Pink will probably be implemented if treehugger is
successfully replaced. So far, no action.

hassler
---------------
Someone gets the job of two weeks before the next meeting hassling
everyone in the minutes to do their job. Safa's gonna be the auto-nag.
Every item has an action:by 


tax deductability
-------------------
makes one more attractive for grants, etc. Massive pain in the arse to
institute, however. Bzzzt.



Hardware: 
------------
Hugh reckons: 4 windows machines on one desk
Didge is being rebuilt
Dual boot planned on didge flat zuul2 and 
<religious rant on microsoft dependancy from <pred> omitted>
JJ allocated pred $30 for RJ45 jacks to crimp on Savanna's donated ethernet wire.
