known.corrections.txt

Abyss,
found by <predator> circa 1992 - tipped off by article in SUSS Bull

Amaroo,
found by <predator> late 1993 - in park near employer's home

Anzac 91 Folly,
found by <predator> circa 1993 - not considered worth adding to list
(by this time <predator> had been spoiled by awesome drains - Melb '92)

Apollo
considered an upstream extension to Hercules Pillars. Built for motorway.

Autobahn
found by <predator> circa 1994 - tipoff by Greg Samuel of MBI 

(The) Basin 
Known about by lots of people for years. Three stacked drains explored on
skateboard for considerable distance in 1992. In 1991 the tunnel into
which the basin is pumped was explored by bicycle by <predator>. It is
about 800m long, 170cm tall, and totally not interesting. The overflow for
the basin was also explored that year. It is a tricky tricky climb - oil
has coated everything - and not worth the effort.

Blackwattle
Known about by Melb clan from the early 1990s expos but not explored. 

Coalcliff
This was found by diode, not <predator> (who later installed the rope).

Cockayne
found by <predator> in 1998. 6ft RCP. Shrinks within 100m.

Darling Harbour
I'm not certain who found this. Mullet took me down it initially in '93.

Deep Throat 
found by diode, not <predator>. The entire system was recorded on CCTV by
<predator> and this led to the recommendation to Ryde council to build
what later became known as Eternity. Probably much of the Deep Throat
catchment has been pirated by Eternity to prevent flooding in Gaza Rd,
West Ryde.

Diddly
found by <predator>, first explored by <predator> and diode in 1995 - this
drain is called Perseverance. Please remove the Diddly reference, it is a 
duplicate.


Eel Pit
found by <predator> in about 1994. 

Eternity
first pictures generated by Wombat. First reported end-to-end tour by
<predator> and diode

Eyes
diode found this, not <predator>

(The) Fallen Tree
<predator> came up with the map, ///siologen did the initial exploration.

(The) Fence
<predator> checked this out by 1993 but considered it, and its upstream
extension which comes out at Melville Reserve, inadequately good for
inclusion in the list. At that stage it was not fenced.

Jigging
diode found it, not predator

Milson Park
Found, I think, by diode. Also referenced in Kennedy, B "Subterranean
Sydney" (1990's)

Penrith
Is more than 1.6m long and its co-ordinate is on map 225, not 255.

Pumping Stn
I've seen no evidence that there was ever any pumping equipment in the
drain, which is gravity fed, after all. I think the old STC (then Alcatel,
then demolished) bldg was simply placed on top of the existing canal - the
tunnel proper doesn't start until Botany St.

Pyramid 
Diode spotted the Pyramid, which triggered our search for what we found
which was the original Swoo.

Quasi
found by diode, not <predator>.

Sin City 

Yes, the Wolli Creek drain system where <predator> got his very first rush
of draining. Some friends had a house beside the petrol station on the cnr
of Cambridge and Percival sts Penshurst. Behind the servo is a canal. I
followed it down to Bexley Nth station, and also up to somewhere in
Beverly Hills. When I first did Sin City I did it in the dark, with four
friends barely into their teens, walking alongside BMX bicycles, in about
1982. Coming out at the bottle shop carpark adjacent to the Beverly Hills
Cinema was _so_ cool... there's an overflow slot near the roof of the
drain which permits you to get out of the upstream end of the tunnel in
two places. For <pred>, it all started in _this_ canal and tunnel system.
Sadly when the motorway was built in 2000 they didn't cap the downstream
canal.

Swoo II
<predator> currently thinks he was the first to notice it all change,
when he and Prowler looked at it in 1997.

Unilever
The co-ordinate 67 Q15 does not exist.

===========

Warragamba Dam
found by diode. diode and <predator> explored it.

Como Rail Bridge
I think Mullet and Diode did this before <pred> did, Check with diode.

Gladesville Bridge
Diode and <predator> did the first Clan expedition


---------------------------------------------------------------
Eat your own bowl!
<predator>
