File: Cat minutes 
Date: May 6th 2002
Who: Lea, Laurie, Safa, Len, Gif, Pred, Sav, 
     (late:) Reha, jj, pred, chris, hugh, andy, graham


Stuff:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Hasslebot		Task list
cat jobs		new box status
$ 			comweb
adv php			
list management 	thurs night
ollie dialup to conway  shaping traffic
mickie quick, SMASH 
et al
mechanarchy DSL 
testing server  	ping thing
active listing		sudo allocation
bedrock cafe		bandwidth, reflect, alpha
database		dan-lists
spam			privacy
linux chix		hardware
lite installs		speakers


Minutes by <predator>. Yes, I am insane and flakey. Any admissions are due to 
my encroaching Alz... Alz.. ah, whatever that disease is where you forget stuff.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Hasslebot
-----------
The gifbot failed profoundly, by his own admission. Len has been
assimilated and has volunteered to do it this month. 

Bedrock Cafe
-------------
Laurie explained that he's set up an organisation to use the brickworks
over the road from 3ft cafe, in St Peters, and has been trying to get council
approval, since about two years ago. Now, he has it. The proposal is to restore
the buildings, and use the buildings for arts- and enviro- and
community-directed stuff. There are aspects to the enterprise which mesh
with cat - autonomously run by stallholders. Other aspects which might
not; the markets might involve for-profit activities, and the profit is to
be directed to restoring the brickworks, covering the costs of running the
markets, etc. The main purpose for the markets  is to facilitate community
participation  in the use of the old buildings and site. The website will use
html, cgi's (etc) ... Laurie's read the charter. Pred has set up the bedrock user
tho has not yet updated the user database.


Task list 
---------
See the To Do list link on the cat.org.au/ main page. This was initiated
to enable people to get things done for them by the cat crew, in part
because the requests being sent to cat kore are not being immediately
acted upon. Safa and Leah are going to throw together a little app wich is
a form for offical catalyst user requests... these entries will be thrown 
into a queue so people can process them, tho I don't know where this is.
 

New Server Box
---------------

Steen's new box is looking pretty good as a replacement server. Need a
couple of parts and will be rocking.


$'$
---------
Gif put 600-and-something into the cat account, paid for a copy of the PHP
black book.

We're up to date paying the tws bill.
Today we got a telstra bill $217, for march.
There'll be an impending alpha one of between 200 and 500 shortly.

We need to keep the kaash coming in to help offset our bandwidth costs,
which are ever so gradually increasing. So, should we do more hardware and
software training stuff - intro html, hardware, simple multimedia
optimisation, web portal design, etc etc. Jj would be keen to do some
image optimisation stuff. Linux installs (on machines known to take linux
OK)? Intro PHP? PHPSlash? Maybe an intro linux one would be good?
Uploading to indymedia, etc.

(and take various measures to stop the $ going out : dropping the telstra
link from ollie to conway, getting freeco-location, or mirrors and stuff
like that will help)

Our monthly bills are between 500 and 700 a month. So we really should be holding two
three-hour workshops a month to cover our costs. Liam from alpha reckons we are
pumping out 7:1 in, whereas they expect thier usual users to serve out 4:1 in. I'm
not sure what alpha wanted to do about this, but the bill might change.

Should we hit up the membership database for their late contribs? This
might be hard to do but needs to be done periodically.

Another idea is to set up a PC, take it to stall, etc (such a box already
exists) and use that to funraise.

Andy sez will do the IP accounting for conway and tell us how much we owe.


--------------------
May 26th 10-1 HTML programming (leah)   
2-5pm PC hardware : pile of parts to functioning box
(pred,jj)
$30 per sesh ($15 concession) kaaaaash on the day.
---------------------

Sunday 9th June at Turella, workshop doing image optimisation (2-5pm).

June 23rd : jj and hugh are going to do one on cyberactivism (2-5pm)

Community web developers forum is happening on July 6th.

Installing content management portals and July after that sometime?



Communityweb
-------------
gif of installed a copy of phpslash at
cat.org.au/communityweb/phpslash/public_html (did I parse that right?)
It's a cyberactivist website. It talks about publishing systems, content
management, email list generation, other cool stuff.

Tues 21st May meeting for communityweb organising group at the 
Cricketters Arms at Surrey Hills. 7pm.

There's a venue made freely available by Parramatta council, too, but I
missed some context here when writing the minutes, sorry about that.


Membership database
---------------------
has now been password protected. Reha's working on it, too.


New people
-------------------

SMASH ----(pred reads email from Anne-X -------) thumbs up. Pred'll create
the user.

Mickie Quick -------- thumbs up. Need to know about the bandwidth
requirements (make it small and tight, flash native vector format!). If he feels
limited by what we can provide we want to help his stuff be hosted elsewhere.

Animal Lib queensland ------- (Chris <-- re website page size?) Ok.
Chris'll chat to them about that. Some issues concerning site size have
been decided : keep the images small, the web code load small. Disk
space is cheap. Bandwidth is not.

Women in Black --------- Jane Castle wants training for WIB people.
I'm not sure who adopted this issue.

Bedrock cafe (see other entry) - account already created.

Kate Lomax?      
Groundswell? 
DKN? Hugh, want to fill us in on some of these things?

There's a suggestion that when new people join the crew, we send 'em the
cat charter, and a copy of the bandwidth usage-limitation policy
stuff. Jj's putting his hand up to design the newbie-package, and would
appreciate any suggestions people might have.


List management
------------------
Active has been handed over to Leah.  The main nuisances are subscribing,
unsubscribing, etc. There needs to be an update to the HTML page on the
cat site which deals with (now massively out of date) majordomo, etc.


Thurs nights
---------------
Was initially planned as a screwdriver-night, free and easy, anyone can
jump in. The general idea is that thursday nights, cat dudes will be here,
no meetings, just jump in and have a go. Promoting it on active tends to
overwhelm it, apparently.


Database entries
-----------------
The plan is: geek takes on responsibility fr some user.
Creates account, creates data base entry.
When the kash arrives, treasurer hands over the password to the user.


virt. receptionist
------------------

still gets lotz o' spam and there needs to be more attention.  
<author bias> There's significant issues concerning a claim of harassment
which
was made against predator; mainly because it raises the issue of how a
virtual receptionist would handle such a claim. Chris responded to it
pretty well, I think, and was quite methodical, asking for emails alleged
to be sent (with headders), desciption of the problem (etc). 
 </author bias>

BTW: thanks v.much cat crew for what I consider to be quite calm and
rational assessment of a situation which I think in some scenarios could
have become very ugly for me very quickly. In particular, thanks to our UK
arm for taking the time to enquire.


Ollie dialling conway
---------------------
This should be implemented as soon as poss. routes change. 
Telstra needs notification. Alpha needs notification. Needs to be
clarified SOON, cos it's costing us $. 
****11am Friday 10th May at TWS.****** Bring a modem.


Mechanarchy (the crew down the far end of the warehouse)
are offering to share ADSL with us, wow!
---------------------------------------------------------
I loaned my SMC 12-port hub to them for use, and a couple of NICs. I'm
gonna try and build a smoothwall router for their LAN. We gotta figure out
what they're offering. Pred's gonna follow up on this. What's the plan and
how much do they pay? 


Disasters
----------
We had: the recursive aotearoa bug (eat all diskspace)
        the idiotic active-brisbane swapfile problem (eat all /var),
        the Berndt's database massive spam of fail-messages problem (send 800Mb of
          email and fill alpha's pipe right up)
        the klez email virus (we werent infected but got mail from those who were)

All in the one week. I think, on the whole, we coped pretty well. But we
should learn from this. I observe most of these problems were results from dodgy code
which was running on a critical box (conway) whereas it should be run on a not
critical box (like, say, Pink).

We decided on a policy where for code development, new dodgy code is
executed on pink.cat so that if it goes nutz, it won't make conway go
nutzo and we can kill pink without taking conway down. Traffic shaping on
pink might go a long way to containing outgoing traffic explosions on the
development box, which is inconsiderate to other users of alpha.


Sudo allocation.
----------------
Meatspace trustworthyness is a pretty good benchmark for sudo
assignment, but not infallible (nobody's a perfect judge of
character). Knowing your limits with sudo is also
important... unix being unix, it will let you format the hard disk with
no warnings that this might be a stupid idea. In Berndt's case, he needed
sudo to do some of the  database stuff he wanted to do. I think he was
pretty clueful about ameliorating the  consequences of a couple of bugs
which were not of his generation but which were stopping conway from doing
its job.

The main thing on the sudo allocation issue (feel free to bitch if it isn't)
is that enablement of sudo for a non-sudo user needs to be *approved* by
more than one sudo person.

One of the things which you can do with sudo is that you can allocate to
particular kinds of commands, to particular sudo-ers. Andy's gonna develop
various levels of sudo powers so we minimise the heirachy-creating
tendancies of sudo but also don't impede users ability to actually do the
stuff they need to do.  Hugh was allocated sudo tonight, too, IIRC.


Bandwidth
------------

Chris sez... Reflect/analog has been compared to existing stats of cat
logs, so we can compare ultrasex requests to the amount of physical
bandwidth, and it hasn't changed; So, ultrasex is still a third of our
total bandwidth.

Ultrasex : 21.3Gb Ultrasex was 10 Gb of that, for April. Maybe we should 
be asking her to find another site to host the page. Hugh's gonna contact
Norrie and make her aware of the situation.

Note analog is broken at the moment.

Maffew notified Hugh that we get one month's notice before reflect goes
away. Replacements for reflect - colo-whoosit - Hugh will look into it.
If we get colocation there, we should pay for a box over in the US (lose
no $ in postage, box not subjected to abuse in-transit)

*Alpha and traffic shaping. In order to prevent us eating all of alpha's
pipe I'm gonna install traffic-shaping on conway, probably at
256kbits/second outgoing (it is currently about 10,000 kbits/second) This
will not affect incoming data speed. 


Ping-thing
----------
Still works, and it tells gif when ollie's down. Will need more work from
Gif to get it to be useful for conway.


Active listings
-------------------
There's brokenness in the code. Needs fixing. webkids@cat*org*au need to
know. If it can't be fixed, revert to the last version which worked.
there's lots of complaints, from people who use the site, about bugz, and
about their complaints being ignored. The ardent contributor who wants to
fix the php code should be approached.

Database tweaking
-----------------
Reha has done some serious work on this and there's still some
significant things to be done before the password stuff's implemented.
Memberships for groups and individuals need to be sorted out in the
structure of the database.

Library donation
-----------------
Hugh scored lots of good books for 50c (I've read some of one of them 
and it's great).


Anarcon 
----------
Andy Safa and Hugh went to the anarchist conference, which brett from
black rose suggested we cat had involvement with. There were lots of geeks
in the orbit.


Linux chix
-------------
Safa and Sav went to the event a couple of weeks ago. SLUG want to host
the website, tho Saf has issues with the slug crew's dodgy sexist
component. Saf thinks that Cat isnt doing enough to actually attract more
women into a grrl-friendly geek-skill-learning-conducive
environment; maybe there needs to be a linux chix workshop here? 
Cat's quite keen to suppor this; methinks it wise that cat women take this 
project and run with it. 

Hardware:
-----------
new box , pentium mmx-233
linux is on didge but the bootmanager is broken
scanner works (yay!)
printer works.

Request for other bits to make steen's box into a server 
 (2x low-noise IDE cables, an ATX power supply) $50 allocated for
that. Pred will get the stuff.

JJ wants that one of the linux boxes is replaced with a windows machine
which can talk to the scanner. 

also Boxes need to be reliable (what's odd with zuul2's graphical
weirdness?)

Chris reckons if we respect the GPL we should also respect the MS
licenses.

Lite Installs
----------------
linux desktop with browser, wp, gimp (etc) on it. Should we try mandrake?
Maybe we should try debian libranet? Whatever we try, it needs to run well on the sort of
shitty boxes we have, so the students aren't frustrated at tutorials.

Speakers:
-----------
Giffo has a pair of 12" speakers. Any bids ?

Keys:
-------
Andy, Hugh, Pred have keys. Anyone else want keys?


Pred's meta-rant.
---------------------
<drool>

Cat's getting bigger. We're doing more stuff, and hence meetings are taking longer. (Total
meeting time required to discuss jobs increases as some exponent of the number of things
to discuss... which is why we get out at 11:30pm, now). I'm not sure if this is just an
artefact of cat being unusually busy, or because we're dealing with a backlog of jobs, or
if this is likely to be a continuous load and should we consider splitting the meetings,
or taking on fewer tasks until we are really on top of the tasks we currently have to do.
Any growing (dis-)organisation needs to prepare for the consequences of its growth. If
people have suggestions about how to deal with these things without creating the same
bureaucratic, impersonal, fragmented heirachy we seek to avoid around here, then we'd
probably like to hear them. Maybe we should set a size limit and adopt the Hutterite
practise of spawning off a little independant metastasis group when this size limit is
reached, which can go and implant itself elsewhere? Improves distributedness and diversity
but brings with it its own problems, too, but I dunno. </drool>


Next meeting :
-------------
Next Cat meeting is Monday June 3rd. 7pm!

 

Cheeries...


<predator>
