
he ‘white cube’ of the gallery. I have used street posters, t-shirts ,
underwear, websites, murals, post cards and narrated slide show and
drawing performances. I wish to make my art accessible and involved in the
everyday of life in order to extend art’s audience beyond the ‘usual’
gallery context. In for example, Textanudes 54 Playing Cards (2002)
showcased a myriad of Sydney women of varied sexuality’s and backgrounds.
These Textanudes are “females drawn naked in their own habitat”. They are
real women, chosen each for their unique presence, rendered in line and
vibrant coloured Texta felt-tip markers. The creation of each Textanude is
an intimate exchange between myself and the model. We choose accessories,
when, how, and where they wish to be depicted so that the art work is in a
very real sense a collaborative production. A quote, chosen from our
conversation during the drawing session, and added to the portrait further
draws out the process as one of dialogue between friends. In this way,
rather than showing the female body as a thing to be depicted, Textanudes
flip the tradition of ‘The Nude’ so that the process, props, and dialogue
reclaim nudity as a powerful, intimate, and individualized state. These
portraits delineate subcultures that respond to the high rent and high
unemployment situation of Sydney using creative, adaptive and resistant
strategies. Berlin, likewise, shares many of these political and cultural
dynamics, though in a different configurations and with different
historical contexts. I wish to position my practice in a wider global
dynamics of Berlin by exploring current European art and cultural
practice, particularly from the perspective of community-based
performance, visual, and music practices. In this way, I will be able to
further expand my understanding of the possibilities and potential these
forms and practices have for developing an engaged and relevant art
practice. My attraction to Berlin derives from my existing connection to
the city's performance and underground queer culture. Berlin is a city
where different creative scenes overlap and interact. I would like to
participate and document this dynamic interaction with my own texta
representation by portraying various subcultures such as drag kings,
strippers, and community activists. For example, Berlin’s infamy for
public nudity offers potential for expanding the significance nakedness
holds in a public arena. By re-situating the subjects of my portraits from
a private setting to a public space, I hope to generate new meanings
surrounding the social and cultural settings I wish to explore.In Berlin
I have an existing support network of willing participants in the project
who will help with video documentation, publicity, and the distribution of
Textaqueen posters. These include, Sampson Zaharkiv, of Berlin based
Grumpy Bear and Freckles Productions. I have also proposed to perform at
Queeruption V, an annual international alternative queer forum in Berlin,
scheduled for May 2003. In addition, I am planning to hold a Textanudes
exhibition at this time at Lasal Gallery (located in Prenzlauer Berg),
which consists of recent works produced in Australia and Europe. This
exposure of Textanudes to the alternative queer scene in Berlin would be
an excellent precursor to a residency at Kunstlerhaus Bethanien. Mori
Gallery, Sydney, has also committed to producing a TextaQueen project,
which is planned to be the Australian culmination of my activities in
Berlin.PAGE 1PAGE 2Arlene de Souza aka Arlene TextaQueen
Kunstlerhaus Bethanien Ressidency Applicationj w

pd ÿÿ$&Dàÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿ„Ô„˜þÆ.






ô Äª”~hR<.  com.au>ller@cyllene.uwa.edu.au>o Law"
<jlaw@cyllene.uwa.edu.au>s@murdoch.edu.au>vwilson@imago.com.au>nfo@maap.org.au>com.au>Éedu.au><postpub@iname.com>Re:
Helloer@cyllene.uwa.edu.au>)ne.uwa.edu.au'" <jlaw@cyllene.uwa.edu.au>  ge
my email addresse: request by HK Film Archive(Connie Lam Suk Yee)ers
Awards 2001, the verge inc.
t.au>ambelli@aol.comimago.com.au>wa.edu.au>80x1024
pixelsff.com.au/html/images/sapff1_r2_c2.jpg





 

 

ÿÿÿøÿÿÿÿ    
	




	
	ÿÿÿøÿÿÿÿ    
ÿÿÿþ ÿÿÿøÿÿÿÿ


	
		






ÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿRSÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿ
ÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿ4c674ba12eb6e0d9f8e1c1eac22
SJLeZ ¿ãÿÿ
